GRADE:  6   
FIRSTNAME: Zach  
LASTNAME: Garvis
LESSON: 3/7
STANDARD: 6.13.5
LEARNING_GOAL: I can develop a model to describe the cycling of Earth’s water through Earth’s systems.
PHENOMENA: Water goes through a continuous cycle.
NUMBER_OF_POINTS: 17 
1. Teacher instructs students to meet in their small groups to record observations they observe within their water cycle models. Students have not received any vocabulary words or any direct instruction about the water cycle, so their observations will be informal. (5 min) (Modeled)
2. Show students the following Study Jams video (5 min): http://studyjams.scholastic.com/studyjams/jams/science/ecosystems/water-cycle.htm (Independant)
3. Formally introduce the key terms evaporation, condensation, precipitation, transpiration, crystallization, respiration, decomposition and groundwater. Students will need to model how to write a definition for students. Teacher will model using the words respiration and decomposition for students as they will not observe these within their models.  Ask students if they think they observed any of these terms in their model.  Are there any that aren’t? Why not?(5 min) (Modeled)
4. While still in their small groups students will try to form their own definitions of the key terms in their journals. They should use what they learned in the study jams video as well as what they observe in their models. (10 min) (Shared)
5. Teacher will have the key terms written around the room. One representative from each group will record the definition their group came up with under each word. (5 min) (Shared) 
6. Teacher introduces expectations for participating in an academic conversation. Explain to students that when we have academic conversations we discuss science topics in a deeper way. While engaging in the conversation students will add their thinking using what they know and facts that they’ve learned. When we engage in an academic conversation we need to keep the following in mind (these may need to be elaborated on): (10 min) - take turns - stay on topic - express ideas clearly - listen actively - build on others’ comments/thinking - be respectful(i agree with/disagree with...because) - allow for wait time - be prepared (Modeled)
7. Teacher leads class in an academic conversation about the key terms. This will be an area where common misunderstanding can be clarified. (10 min) (Shared)
8. Students will go back into their journals and edit their definitions if necessary. (5 min) (Independant)
9. Explain that we are going to investigate how different materials that make up Earth’s surface can affect how water moves when it comes in contact with the ground. *Earth’s materials is a general term that includes minerals, rocks, soil, and water. These are naturally occurring materials found on Earth that constitute the raw materials upon which our global society exists. Earth materials are vital resources that provide the basic components for life, agriculture, and industry. (2-3 min) (Modeled)
10. Have students complete the “read” section of eScience Unit 3 Earth’s Waters Chapter 1 The Water Planet Lesson 3 Groundwater in pairs while teacher supports small groups as needed for students that need additional reading supports. (30 min) (Shared)
11. Students will complete the “investigation” portion of the eScience3000 lesson found eScience3000 Unit 3 Earth’s Waters Chapter 1 The Water Planet Lesson 3 Groundwater. Guide students through the investigation. As students complete the investigation they will begin to see that water filters through certain materials. Provide the prompt: What is the force that pulls water down into the ground? Students should eventually come to the conclusion that gravity pulls water down. (40 min) (Guided)
12. After students have finished their investigations, remind students that humans are using large amounts sometimes up to 70% of the water contained in the ground for activities such as irrigation. Ask students if they think this is a good idea?(1 min) (Modeled)
13. Students engage in another academic conversation on whether they think using large amounts of groundwater is a good idea. Welcome all responses. (10 min) (Shared)
14. After the completion of the groundwater activity, students should take out their journals. Here the class will brainstorm what they learned about the key terms. Together the class will draw an example water cycle diagram based off of student provided answers. For example, students might say they see evaporation of puddles on the sidewalk after it rains. This would then be drawn and labeled in their journals. (15 min) (Shared)
15. Have students respond to guiding question “How does the Missouri river, Platte river, and Dakota sandstone aquifer maintain its water level if major cities like Omaha and Kansas City are constantly removing large amounts daily?” Allow students to have think ink time, and then have them share their thinking by using the hand up, stand up, pair up strategy. (10 min) (Shared)
16. Teacher poses the formative assessment question: What is groundwater and how is groundwater replenished? (these will be graded and entered into grade books.) (10 min)
17. At the end of class students will meet in their small groups to begin developing questions for their game based on today’s lesson. They may need additional support in how to create questions. (teacher discretion) (Independant)
CLOSING_SUMMARY:  Teacher poses the formative assessment question: What is groundwater and how is groundwater replenished? (these will be graded and entered into grade books.) (10 min)
