GRADE:  6   
FIRSTNAME: Zach  
LASTNAME: Garvis
LESSON: 5/7
STANDARD: 6.13.5
LEARNING_GOAL: I can develop a model to describe the cycling of Earth’s water through Earth’s systems.
PHENOMENA: Water goes through a continuous cycle.
NUMBER_OF_POINTS: 13  
1. To begin the lesson ask students to quickly get into their small groups and to record any new observations from their water cycle model into their journals. (Modeled)
2. Students record their observations into their journals. What do you notice? What do you wonder? (5 min.) (Shared)
3. Once observations are recorded, the teacher will ask students to share out. Point out when students use the vocabulary during their share out. (2-3 min) (Modeled)
4. Students share out their observations. (5 min.)(Shared)
5. Revisit with the class that during the last lesson they explored how some of the water that falls to the ground is collected underneath the Earth’s surface. Today we will explore what happens to water on the surface of the Earth and what causes those things to happen. Ask students the guiding question “How does the sun affect the dynamic nature of the water cycle? (Tomorrow we will have the same guiding question so it may not be answered completely today.) (5 min.) (Modeled)
6. Write the following words on the board: Condensation, Transpiration, Evaporation, and Precipitation. Ask students to classify these words in two categories: bringing water to the Earth or taking water away from the Earth. (5 min)(Modeled)
7. Students talk to their shoulder partners to discuss and classify each term according to whether it is bringing water to Earth or taking it away from Earth. (Answers will not be shared out to the class until after th(e explore activity as their thinking may change.) (5 min.) (Shared)
8. Have students grab their water cycle models if they do not still have them from their initial observations. Explain that today we will add an additional component to our water cycle models and will explore who that affects the water cycle. Each group will get a ziplock bag of 3-4 ice cubes and some saran wrap. They will remove the top portion of the water cycle model. They will then place saran wrap, secured with a rubber band or tape,  over the top of the model. Next, they will place the bag of ice on top. Pass out desk lamps/heat lamps. Students will place their lamp in a way that it shines down onto the model as the sun would on Earth. Monitor what happens for the next 10 min. (15 min.) (Guided) 
9. Teacher will ask the students to observe what happens within their model when a heat source is added. While observing students will respond to the following questions in their notebooks. What was the energy source for the water cycle? How does the water cycle "transport" energy? What do you think would happen if you added a second or even third lamp? Describe what you think might happen if you left the water cycle model in a shoebox in the dark for several hours. (10 min.)(Independent)
10. Refer students back to the guiding question: “How does the sun affect the dynamic nature of the water cycle? (2-3 min)(Shared)
11. Lead an academic conversation about the observations made in the explore activity. (10 min)(Shared)
12. Students will meet in their small groups and will continue to create questions for their game. (teacher discretion)(Independant)
13. Students sketch their models and label what happened in today’s explore lab in their journals. (5-7 min)(Guided)
CLOSING_SUMMARY: Students sketch their models and label what( happened in today’s explore lab in their journals. (5-7 min)
